SEP 9 - Working Groups (#12)
saltstack/salt-enhancement-proposals: 0009-salt-working-groups.md

- Feature Name: Working Group
- Start Date: 2019-05-16
- SEP Status: Draft
SEP PR: https://github.com/saltstack/salt-enhancement-proposals/pull/12
- Salt Issue: (leave this empty)

# Summary
[summary]: #summary

> Engage with Salt community to get feedback on working group 

Author: I have posted in #general  and #wg-captains Saltstack community channels.

> Engage with Salt community to get feedback on working group 

Reviewer: I think he meant you have some typos in the string.

> Engage with Salt community to get feedback on working group 

Reviewer 2: This is a valid change...

> Engage with Salt community to get feedback on working group 

Author: Makes sense. Changed this as suggested

# Motivation
[motivation]: #motivation

> Salt's first working groups will convene by mid of June 2019. In order to benefit the participants of current and future working group as well as those administering them, all the details of working group will be added as a README document in separate repo community. 

Author: Changed this as README document in the repo `saltstack/community`

# Working Groups 

A Working Group is a small group of individuals who come together with a common goal and work towards achieving that goal within a predetermined amount of time. It’s an opportunity for Salt community to lead Salt projects and be part of the process in its entirety. 

## Eligibility to participate 

> Salt community members are eligible to be part of a working group. A community member is one who is interested in working on the Salt project exhibited by raising either 1 or more PR(s), issue(s) or SEP(s) (Salt Enhancement Proposal).

Reviewer 2: I think this is still a valid change...

> Salt community members are eligible to be part of a working group. A community member is one who is interested in working on the Salt project exhibited by raising either 1 or more PR(s), issue(s) or SEP(s) (Salt Enhancement Proposal).

Author: Changed this as suggested

## Application Process

Salt community members indicate their interest to be part of one or more working group(s) by filling out an application consisting of simple 4-5 question survey; Applicants indicate their preference for the type of working group(s) they want to join and the role they want to play: Captain or facilitator. If an application is received past the due date then the applicant will automatically be considered for the next term of the working groups. 

## Election 

Salt will conduct an election to choose the working group members in the following scenarios: 
- When the number of applicants interested in joining the working groups exceeds the number that is ideal for a working group (3 to 9 members) 
- 2 or more community members indicate their interest in being captain
- If Salt doesn’t receive any eligible applicants for captain role, a member of the Salt open/core will be elected to be captain of that working group. 

The rules for the election process are:  
- Election for the first working group captain will be internal and voting will be done by the Salt core team. 

> - Elections for all subsequent working group captains and members will be voted on by the outgoing members of the current working group

Reviewer 3: What happens in the event of a tie?

Author: I have added below statement
In case of a tie, Thomas Hatch, Salt project creator, will make the final decision.

## Timelines 

> Based on the applications submitted, Salt chooses the final working group members 

Reviewer 3: I take this to mean that SaltStack (the company) is retaining the exclusive right to decide who from the community will be permitted in a working group and who is not.

But, in the paragraph able it says that `Elections for all subsequent working group captains and members will be voted on by the outgoing members of the current working group`

Could you please clarify which of these correct?

Author: I have changed this as follows

Elections for all subsequent working group captains and members will be voted on by the outgoing members of the current working group and Salt core team.

Below is the approximate timeline for how long each working group term will last. The actual timeline may differ. For example, the Testing and Release Working Group might decide to convene immediately after a major release and dissolve after the next major release. 

![Working Group Timelines](./diagrams/Working-group-timelines.svg)

*T0 is feature freeze date of current major release
 T1 is feature freeze date of next major release

> Working Groups will meet once a month for 60 mins. Below are some guidelines for working group participants, although each of these groups may operate a little differently depending on their needs and workflow.

Reviewer 3: Most commonly, I have seen these types of meeting scheduled no less than once a week. 

Will these be recorded? Will recordings be public? Does one need to be a member of the group to attend?

Author: To clarify, I changed it as: Working Groups will meet not less than once a month for 60 mins

Also we make it clear that Captains can hold as many discussions/meetings as needed. Below is an excerpt
- The captain will attend monthly working group meetings for their respective working group. SaltStack will set these up, but SaltStack will hold no restriction on any additional meetings the captain may deem necessary

The meetings are being recorded and made available on Youtube. Meetings are open for anyone to attend and meeting links are shared publicly. I have added the info now to this SEP

## Working Group Structure  

Each member of a working group will fill one of 3 roles: captain, participant or facilitator. 

### Captain

Each working group captain will help lead their respective working group. 

#### Role of Captains
- The captain helps shepherd a subset of features/critical fixes for a given release
- The captain will help coordinate other contributors' work in their area
- The captain will attend monthly working group meetings for their respective working group. SaltStack will set these up, but SaltStack will hold no restriction on any additional meetings the captain may deem necessary

#### Captain Guidelines

> - The captain will have merge rights to Salt repository

Reviewer 3: Are there security guidelines for this sort of thing? For example, is there a document which outlines that those with merge access should have 2FA enabled?

Author: @Ch3LL This might be something we should add to Merging Guidelines SEP ?

Reviewer 4: added here: https://github.com/saltstack/salt-enhancement-proposals/pull/13/files#diff-1f5ce66a12d7194668a8225607482bd9R47

> - Single review completed by the captain on the PR will be considered as criteria met to merge the PR (No additional reviews required) 

Author: Retaining this for emphasis

- Captain will have merge rights to Salt once a PR has been reviewed and approved
- A captain of one working group cannot be captain of any other salt working groups. But captain can be a participant of other working groups 
- Captain can vote to choose the captain and/or participants of next term working group
- Captains have a 3 successive term limit. Captains can take a gap after their 3 successive terms and come back to be a captain after a gap term
- Starting from 2nd term working groups, the captains chosen need to have been a participant in at least one working group 
- Once a captain’s term end and they are no longer the captain of the next term, their merge rights will be rescinded and transferred to new/incoming captain of the working group 

> - Captain’s need to follow the [Merging Guidelines](https://github.com/saltstack/salt-enhancement-proposals/); This is to ensure Salt project grows responsibly. 

Author: Did the other way around (moved a bullet point from "role of captains" to "Captain Guidelines"

> - In rare occasions and in consultation with Salt Core team, Captain can nominate a Vice Captain for the working group, to help assist during long leave of absence or to share responsibilities. Captain can also give merge access to said Vice Captain of their working group while ensuring they follow the Merging Guidelines.

Reviewer 2: - In rare occasions and in consultation with `the` Salt `core` team, `the captain` can nominate a `vice-captain` for the working group, to help assist during `a` leave of absence or to share responsibilities. `The captain` can also give merge access to the `vice-captain`. The `vice-captain` must adhere to the same guidelines as the captain.

 
### Participant

Participants form the core of each of the working groups. 

#### Role of Participant 
- Participants will attend monthly working group meetings for their respective working group 

> - Participants will get to work on exciting salt projects be it enhancements or issues that impacts thousands of salt users

Reviewer 2: - Participants will get to work on exciting `Salt` projects, enhancements, or issues that `impact` thousands of `Salt` users

#### Participant Guidelines 
- No restriction on the number of working groups a participant can be part of 

> - Once their term ends, a participant can move to different working group or continue in the same working group 

Reviewer 2: can move to `a` different working group

- No term limits on how many times a Salt community member can be a participant of a working group 

> - Participants don’t have merge rights. But participants can get merge rights based on their captain’s recommendation 

Reviewer 2: However, the captain can recommend that a participant be granted merge rights.

### Facilitator 

> Till the working groups mature, Saltstack will facilitate the working group meetings and there will be at least 1 SaltStack facilitator in every working group meeting

Reviewer 2: `Until` the working groups mature,

#### Role of Facilitator 
- Facilitator will work with Salt core team to identify the list of participants, communicate/invite them to working groups 
- Facilitator will make sure everyone gets a chance to voice their opinions
- Facilitator will make sure members stick to the goals of the meeting and doesn't get derailed into tangential conversations 
- Facilitator sets up the monthly working group meetings and invites the right folks 
- Facilitator makes the agenda clear before every meeting
- Facilitator takes notes and share the action items after every meeting 
- Facilitator makes sure working group members needs/interests are met 

> 

Reviewer 2: - `The facilitator` will work with `the` Salt core team to identify participants and communicate/invite them to `the` working groups 
- `The facilitator` will `ensure` everyone gets a chance to voice their opinions
- `The facilitator` will `ensure` members `adhere` to the goals of the meeting and `that the meeting doesn't devolve` into tangential conversations 
- `The facilitator` sets up the monthly working group meetings and invites the appropriate participants
- `The facilitator` makes the agenda clear before every meeting
- `The facilitator` takes notes and `shares` the action items after every meeting 
- `The facilitator ensures the` working group members needs/interests are met

## Benefits of Working Group 

- Active voice and participation in Salt projects 

> - SaltStack will publish the efforts of working groups to broader salt community 

Reviewer 2: to `the` broader `Salt` community

> - SaltStack will work on recognition of the various working groups members in various public platforms. 

Reviewer 2: - SaltStack will `recognize working group members` in various public platforms

> - Participants and Captains will get dedicated working group swag

Reviewer 2: will `receive` dedicated working group swag

- Feature Name: Working Group
- Start Date: 2019-05-16
- SEP Status: Draft

> - SEP PR: (leave this empty)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
SEP PR: https://github.com/saltstack/salt-enhancement-proposals/pull/12
```

- Salt Issue: (leave this empty)

# Summary
[summary]: #summary

Engage with Salt community to get feedback on working group 

# Motivation
[motivation]: #motivation

Salt's first working groups will convene by mid of June 2019. In order to benefit the participants of current and future working group as well as those administering them, all the details of working group will be added as a README document in saltstack/salt/community/working-group folder. 

> # Design

Reviewer 5: Design section is empty. Remove it?

Author: The entire section under the Working Groups belongs to Design section.

Reviewer 5: Then you'll want to prefix the subheadings with `##`.

If you're on a Mac, I highly recommend [MacDown](https://macdown.uranusjr.com/) for editing Markdown files.

Reviewer 5: If everything beneath `# Design` belongs to that header, then all of the sub(-sub...) headings will need one more `#`

Author: Went with your earlier suggestion of removing #design heading

[design]: #detailed-design

# Working Groups 

> Working Group is a small group of individuals who come together with a common goal and work towards achieving the goal within a predetermined amount of time. It’s an opportunity for Salt community to lead Salt projects and be part of the process in its entirety. 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
A Working Group is a small group of individuals who come together with a common goal and work towards achieving that goal within a predetermined amount of time. It’s an opportunity for Salt community to lead Salt projects and be part of the process in its entirety. 
```

## Eligibility to participate 

> Salt community members are eligible to be part of working group. A community member is one who is interested in working for Salt project exhibited by raising either 1 or more PR(s), issue(s) or a SEPs (Salt Enhancement Proposal) 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Salt community members are eligible to be part of a working group. A community member is one who is interested in working on the Salt project exhibited by raising either 1 or more PR(s), issue(s) or SEP(s) (Salt Enhancement Proposal).
```
